## Minutes for Wednesday, Sept 28

**Attendees:**

* Hao Xiao - Runtime Verification
* Joris Dral - Well-Typed
* Las Safin - MLabs
* Mikael Björn - FYEO
* Vilhelm Sjöberg - Certik
* Simon Thompson - IOG
* Stefano Leone - IOG
* Bogdan Manole - IOG
* Adriana Saez - IOG

**Apologies**

* Mathieu Montin - Tweag
* Nicolas Jeannerod - Tweag
* Jonathon Bartlett - Tweag
* Thomas Arts - Quviq

### Minutes:

* Minutes from Sep, 21 were signed-off.
* Chair: Mikael Björn from FYEO
* Vice-Chair: Hao Xiao - Runtime Verification
* CIP-57 “Plutus Smart-Contract Blueprints” - It was asked if the proposed information under this CIP would be a value for the auditors groups.
    * Initial view is that this would not be of much use. Every single person uses different tools
    * However it could useful to talk about the design of protocols from a more abstract perspective
    * It was agreed to start a discussion under the Cardano certification alliance Github for all the members to share their view.
    * Final conclusion on this topic to be agreed by next week
* All the information re: “Agda formalization of the ledger” is public in the formal ledger specifications repo for everybody to see. Link https://github.com/input-output-hk/formal-ledger-specifications. It was agreed that a demo on this will be useful.
* It was asked if this group could be involved in defining the certification standard for Cardano wallets
    * There are mixed views from the members so action has been taken to review this topic and confirm the answer by the next meeting.

**Actions:**

* All members from the working group: Share with Simon how many companies have been audited by EOW
* All members from the working group: Bring any comment re the initial charter to the next meeting, with the aim of signing it off at the next meeting.
* **Las** - Start a discussion under the Cardano certification alliance Github on CIP-57 “Plutus Smart-Contract Blueprints” **All members to share their view** . Link to Github https://github.com/input-output-hk/Cardano-certification-alliance-working-group
* **Simon** - Organize a demo on “Agda formalization of the ledger” in the coming weeks
* **Simon** - To share key points on brainstorming session on design of metadata for describing DApps, and particularly, on certification metadata.
* **All members from the working group**: Share views if defining the certification standard for Cardano wallets should be part of this group
* **Adriana/ Simon** - aim try to clarify what defining the certification standard for Cardano wallets means. Is the purpose to set-up some sort of standard for the future wallets that want to be Cardano certified or existing wallets?
