## Minutes for Wednesday, Oct 5

**Attendees:**

* Hao Xiao - Runtime Verification
* Las Safin - MLabs
* Mikael Björn - FYEO
* Vilhelm Sjöberg - Certik
* István Szentandrási - Blocklabs
* Mathieu Montin - Tweag
* Nicolas Jeannerod - Tweag

**Interested parties:**

* Romain Soulat - IOG
* Simon Thompson - IOG
* Stefano Leone - IOG
* Bogdan Manole - IOG
* Adriana Saez - IOG

**Apologies:**

* Joris Dral - Well-Typed
* Jonathon Bartlett - Tweag
* Thomas Arts - Quviq

### Minutes:

* Minutes from Sep, 28 were signed off.
* Update on: metadata for DApp registration and certification.
   * DApp store and light wallets are changing the approach involving the use of Decentralized Identifiers (DID W3C), a new type of identifier that enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. However, this means that the DApp Store  will take longer to deliver than originally envisaged.
   * Defining the details for metadata to be included in the certification information will happen in the coming weeks. Feedback will be sought from the WG (working group) members by IOG (Simon).
* CIP-57 “Plutus Smart-Contract Blueprints”
   * Las updated Github and from feedback received this is not particularly related to auditing. Describing principal behavior is not a goal. What they want to achieve is to specify the language for the template for the API entry.
   * There has been some internal discussion of this issue, and it can be seen as one example of contract metadata.  Related to this is CIP-26, which is a proposal of  how to handle metadata off-chain.
   * There is a related question of contract metadata versus DApp metadata, which iis typically made up of a number of contracts.
   * It seems that the process is more a RFP rather than a CIP
   * More research needs to be done on the above: Simon to link discussions internally and externally.
* It was confirmed that defining the certification standard for Cardano wallets won't be part of the scope of this WG. However some members of the WG would be happy to share their views in another forum.
* It would be good to meet-up at Cardano Summit 2022 in Lausanne. It could be an option to recruit people to join the group and promote it.
* It was decided to have these meetings every 2 weeks for 1h starting at 4pm CEST. Next meeting will on the 19th October,
* A DApp newsletter is going out next week to the Cardano community.
* The Discord channel is being moved to a new server for the working groups to manage.
* The working group has to be managed and led by its members.

**Actions:**

* **Simon** - To share details for metadata to be included in the certification information when draft version is available.
* **Simon** - To  follow-up on CIP-0026, contract metadata versus Dapp metadata, process RFP versus CIP and a single doc as a source
* **Mikael & Hao** - Prepare draft for newsletter highlighting the mission and the importance of this working group by Monday 12.30 CEST time.
* **Simon** - Organize a 20 min demo + Q&A on “Agda formalization of the ledger”. Proposed day Wednesday the 19th October.
* **Adriana** - reschedule meeting to the agreed times - Closed
* **Adriana, Mikael, Hao** - to set-up a call in the coming weeks in preparation for handover.
* **Adriana** - Share Discord link and Github with new members - Closed
* **Adriana** - share Multichain (bridge to cardano) details. They are looking for an audit company. Done
here is the branch:
https://github.com/anyswap/CrossChain-Router/tree/feature/cardano

**Outstanding action from previous meetings:**

* All members from the working group: Share with Simon how many companies have been audited ASAP
* All members from the working group: Look at the charter so that it is updated with roles & responsibilities by the beginning of November.
