## Minutes for Wednesday, November 2

**Attendees:**

* Romain Soulat - IOG
* Adriana Saez - IOG
* Simon Thompson - IOG
* Andre Knispel - IOG
* Bogdan Manole - IOG
* Hao Xiao - Runtime Verification
* Vilhelm Sjoberg - Certik
* Las safim - MLabs
* Nicolas Jeannerod - Tweag
* Mathieu Montin - Tweag
* Carles Augu - SmartChain
* Mikael Bjorn - FYEO
* Jide Fashola - Cardano Foundation

### Beginning of the meeting:

* There is a new Discord server for the alliance, independent from IOG.
* Further meetings will be done from Discord directly.
* Andre Knispel was presented to the group as an IOG engineer in charge of formalizing the ledger in Agda.
* Andre was there to present his work and discuss ledger corner cases that might not be known by the group's members and might be absent from simplified models.
* The meeting is being recorded by Simon Thompson.

### Andre's presentation:

* Prerequisite of the formal model:
  * The specification is written in natural deduction style.
  * There is a context, a state space and a transition function.
  * The context could possibly be embedded into the state if needed, to make the presentation closer to a regular state machine
  * The rules describe which transactions can be executed.
  * There is an embedded state machine called ppup.
* Corner cases that are taken into account by the formal model:
  * Byron addresses should be handled because they are still used by old scripts.
  * Max transaction size.
  * Fees.
  * Limit of the maximal amount of collateral inputs (limited to 1 currently).
  * Maximum value size to prevent people from creating unspendable outputs.
  * Ada entries are non negative.
* In addition, some changes to the ledger state only apply for transaction whose scripts have successfully run.
  Thus, each transaction has to be seen as a pair of transactions (success, failure).
  In case of failure, the collateral is consumed.
  This is important when watching the chain from outside, not necessarily when writing scripts.
* Current state of the Agda formalization:
  * It is not ready for use yet, although it has progressed a lot.
  * It should be testable “soon-ish” against a concrete implementation.
  * They will develop a version without corner cases to be simpler to use.
  * They will prove conformity properties between the two as well as missing elements.
  * The rationale is that most user will most likely not be in these corner cases.
  * They want to be able to prove properties between eras as well.
  * They plan on retiring the LaTeX specification in favor of the Agda one once the latter is mature enough.

### End of meeting additional topics:

* The group will be renamed to “the Certification working group” to align with other groups.
* The goal is to have a page in Cardano approval.
* There will be a communication at the IOG Meetup in Edinburgh, taking place in parallel to the Cardano Summit in Lausanne.
* The overall goal is to promote the group and attract new members.

### Agenda for the next meeting:

A proposal was made to discuss about level one certification as a whole.
