# CTI-2023-ADA-1105: Unbounded value

## Author

MLabs - Audit Team 

### Summary

The following property is violated: values of all legit UTxOs locked by the protocol have an upper bound for their size, and the upper bound is low enough to not prevent consumption of the UTxO as an input in a future transaction.

The potential impact of exploiting this weakness is:
  - Unspendable outputs
  - Protocol halting

### Description

Typically, a large value could make a transaction fail in three ways:

- Scenario 1: if a script expects an exact or bounded number of tokens in some of its inputs, the transaction will fail if more tokens are present in those inputs. 

- Scenario 2: if an input UTxO has N distinct tokens in the value (with different asset classes), then just by passing on the input values to the output and adding some M additional distinct tokens (with a new asset class), the transaction might fail due to exceeding the transaction size limit.

- Scenario 3: if the input UTxO contains a lot of different native tokens and the script logic is such that it must go through and process them, then the transaction might fail due to execution resources (XU limits) being breached.

Note that values held by UTxOs only contribute to the size of the transaction when being part of the outputs of the transaction, but not when they are part of the inputs.

A common case where this problem arises is when the logic of the scripts allow the presence and addition of foreign tokens (i.e. tokens not expected by the protocol).


### Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood: **Medium**
- **Difficulty:** **Medium**
- **Impact:** **High**
- **Severity:** **Medium**

### Steps to Reproduce

Construct a test with the following steps:
 - Step 1: Sumbit a transaction that locks in a validator script an output with the expected amount of tokens.
 - Step 2: Consume the UTxO locked in step 1 and observe the transaction succeed.
 - Step 3: Submit a transaction that locks in the same validator script as in step 1 an output with the same datum as in step 1 and with unexpected tokens.
 - Step 4: Try to consume the UTxO locked in step 3 in a transaction similar to the one in step 2 and observe the transaction fail.

### Technical Details

The simplest situation where this weakness becomes a problem is in scripts with checks disallowing the presence of unexpected tokens, similar to the following (scenario 1 in the description above):

`let [(cs,tn,amt)] = flattenValue (input.value)`

If a previous transaction had locked an output with any token other than ADA, the transaction would fail.

The most common pattern where scenario 2 becomes a problem are script logics that require the ongoing addition of distinct tokens to the UTxOs locked by scripts.

Lastly, scenario 3 is usually the hardest to identify as it becomes a problem in scripts where unexpected tokens are not taken into account, being easy to forget about them. For instance, if a script had to fold through the value of an input, for instance looking for a specific combination of asset class and amount, it would be problematic if that input contained a large amount of asset classes.

### Mitigation & Remediation Steps

The described weakness is prevented with higher constrains around output values. This is, it is not enough to just check that the expected tokens are included in the locked outputs, but it also should be explicitely checked that only the expected tokens are present, disallowing for any extra tokens.

Also, resource consumption monitoring tests should be implemented, and transactions involving maximum expected flows of value should be covered by those tests.

### References

MLabs `Plutus Security` repository: https://github.com/mlabs-haskell/plutus-security.