# CTI-2023-ADA-1103: Stealing validity tokens

## Author

Vacuumlabs -- Smart contract auditing team

## Summary

On Cardano, tokens are often used to verify a valid state. In case of insufficient checks, a validity token can be stolen and moved to another UTxO with a spoofed datum, which can be potentially used to do unlimited damage, e.g. draining a protocol.

## Description

In order to initialize a smart contract state on Cardano blockchain, you need to utilize validity tokens. Anyone can create any datum on any address, so the validity of a state (datum) is guaranteed by a presence of a token, as the token came either from a minting policy or a validator, and these smart contracts can validate that the initial state is correct.

For example, the initial state might state that the initial account balance is 0. An attacker spoofing it to a large sum of money would be able to withdraw that amount, potentially draining the whole application.

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:** **Low** 
- **Difficulty:** **Medium**
- **Impact:** **High**
- **Severity:** **High**

## Steps to Reproduce

Depending on the exact bug in the validator, steal a validity token to a UTxO at an address that is controlled by the attacker.

## Technical Details

A common bug does not check the address of output UTxOs containing validity tokens. If an attacker moves the validity tokens from the input into an output UTxO at an address they control, they can later use it to spoof the initial state at the correct smart contract address.

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

Make sure that you are handling all edge cases regarding validity tokens, including wrong destinations of the tokens or wrong amounts at one UTxO.

Also make sure that the logic handling the presence of validity tokens is simple and sound. The code should be structured in a way that it's resilient against refactorings, as these are prone to introduce the bug. 

## References

## Tags
