# CTI-2023-ADA-11-04: Multiple Satisfaction

## Author

M. Ali Modiri, Gimbalabs

## Short Summary

The Multiple Satisfaction vulnerability is a type of smart contract vulnerability that allows an attacker to steal funds from other users by exploiting the way that smart contracts interact with each other or handle the outputs of the contract.

## Description

This vulnerability can occur in different ways and types:

- When a naive implementation of a smart contract simply checks that the transaction has an output to the smart contract with the required amount of Ada or any other token. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by creating a transaction that spends the same UTxO to two different smart contracts. Each smart contract would then see the output to itself and believe that the transaction is valid. However, the attacker would only actually pay the UTxO once. This means that the attacker would be able to steal the funds from the other smart contract without paying for them.

- A transaction can spend multiple UTxOs from a validator by satisfying burning and/or paying requirements for a single input while paying the rest of the unaccounted input value to a foreign address.

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:** High
- **Difficulty:** Medium
- **Impact:** High
- **Severity:** Critical

## Steps to Reproduce

This attack can be observed by just using a clone of an order validator script.

1. Copy the code and change it slightly so the logic is not changed, but the hash changes.
2. Alice (the seller) places an order to sell Token A and receive X amount of ADA in the original script.
3. Alice places another order to sell Token B (could be the same as Token A or different) and receive Y amount of ADA in the clone script.
4. Bob places an order to buy Token B in the clone script, offering max (X,Y) ADA for it.
5. Bob creates a transaction that consumes the three orders, paying max (X,Y) ADA to Alice and getting both Token A and Token B.

From the point of view of the original script, Alice got at least the amount of ADA that was asking for Token A, so it passes validation. From the point of view of the clone script, Alice got at least the amount of ADA that was asking for Token B, and Bob got the Token B, so it passes validation.

Note: It is not even necessary that Bob places an order in any of the scripts. The attack can be performed by building a transaction that consumes the two orders from Alice and sends the ADA to Alice directly from a wallet controlled by Bob.

## Technical Details

- The smart contract attempts to prevent the attack by verifying there is only one entry in the datum list of the script context.

    ```haskell
    oneScript :: [(DatumHash, Datum)] -> Bool
    oneScript l = length l == 1
    ```

    In general, this approach works but fails if multiple script inputs have identical datum hashes.

- It is important to remember that Cardano "NFTs" are merely non-native tokens with special metadata. It is not unheard of for "NFTs" listed on marketplaces to be fungible tokens with NFT metadata. If these tokens with multiplicity over one were listed, they are vulnerable to the "double satisfaction" attack.

- A common coding pattern that introduces such a vulnerability can be observed in the following excerpt:

    ```haskell
    vulnValidator _ _ ctx =
    ownInput ← findOwnInput ctx
    ownOutput ← findContinuingOutput ctx
    traceIfFalse “Must continue tokens” (valueIn ownInput == valueIn ownOutput)
    ```

    Imagine two outputs at `vulnValidator` holding the same values:
      A. TxOut ($FOO x 1 + $ADA x 2)
      B. TxOut ($FOO x 1 + $ADA x 2)
    A transaction that spends both of these outputs can steal value from one spent output by simply paying `$FOO x 1 + $ADA x 2` to the **correct** address of the `vulnValidator` and paying the rest `$FOO x 1 + $ADA x 2` to an arbitrary address.

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

- Carefully design the smart contracts to avoid situations where the same UTxO could be spent to multiple smart contracts. For example, you can use a unique identifier for each UTxO and check to make sure that the same UTxO is not being spent to two different contracts in the same transaction.

- Carefully design the smart contracts to insist that it runs in a transaction that is running no other scripts, so there is no risk of confusion. Note that it is not enough to consider just validator scripts; minting and reward scripts must also be banned.

- Disallow batching transactions.

- Instead of verifying that there is only one datum, check that there is only one script address as an input.

- A validator/policy should ensure that all burning and paying requirements consider all relevant inputs in aggregate.

## References

[Plutus Documentation](https://plutus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/writing-scripts/common-weaknesses/double-satisfaction.html)

## Tags

 #double_satisfaction
