# CTI-2023-ADA-51-02: Locked Funds

## Author

Romain Soulat, Technical Lead for Certification, IO Global

## Short Summary

Whenever funds are locked to a on-chain validator, it might happen that the contract logic does not allow for the funds to ever be unlocked or that the only transactions that can move the contract forward will be rejected by the node.

## Description

A Locked Funds vulnerability occur when the contract has reached some form of deadlock, when either: the contract logic does not allow for the validator's UTxOs to ever be spent, or if the only transactions that would spend those UTxOs would be rejected by the node. Such a vulnerability can be either triggered by a malicious actor but could also be simply triggered by a regular user if the contract logic is not robust enough. This weakness concerns both Ada, or other native tokens, NFTs, or any other assets that can be locked to a validator.

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:**
  - **Medium:**

- **Difficulty:**
  - **Medium:**

- **Impact:** The potential impact of the vulnerability/weakness on the system, organization, and users, ranging from Low to High.The impact levels can be defined as follows:
  - **High:** Vulnerabilities/Weaknesses that have significant impact on system confidentiality, integrity, or availability.

As part of the risk assessment, it is important to describe the potential impact of the vulnerability or weakness on the organization, as well as any potential legal or regulatory consequences.

- **Severity:** 
  - **High:** Vulnerabilities/Weaknesses that can be easily exploited with a high impact.


## Steps to Reproduce

This describes a general weakness and not a particular vulnerability that can be exploited. 

## Technical Details

To detect if the weakness exist in a given project, the testing suite should explore strategies to recover funds in all possible scenarios as well as trying to bring the contract to large datum sizes, outgoing transaction sizes, and other protocol parameter limits (see [CTI-2023-XXX-XX-XX]() on the weakness about protocol parameter limits).

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

A Dapp developer should always consider strategies to recover funds in non-nominal scenarios. This can be done by having a fallback mechanism that allows for the contract to be updated, or by having mechanisms to always move the contract forward.

## Tags

locked-funds, deadlock