# CTI-2023-ADA-51-01: Infinite Minting

## Author

Alasdair Hill, Certification Engineer, IO Global

## Short Summary

Infinite minting is an exploit where an attacker manages to mint a numerous amount of tokens in a way that is unintended by the DApp. This exploit has severe consequences and has caused tokens to completely lose all of their value.

## Description

Many DApps have validators that govern the minting of tokens. An infinite minting attack occurs when an attacker can mint numerous tokens in a way that is not expected by the validator. This allows an attacker to mint a potentially infinite amount of tokens that weren't meant to be minted. Typically this type of attack is used to generate a large number of tokens which are then dumped. This potentially generates millions of dollars for the attacker whilst completely devaluing the generated token. 

An infinite minting attack is severe as it can affect not only the DApp where the token is minted but also all other DApps that accept the minted token. To date this type of attack has been used to steal over a billion dollars with some top examples detailed [here](https://pontem.network/posts/top-crypto-infinite-mint-hacks). 

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:** high

- **Difficulty:** high

- **Impact:** high

- **Severity:** high

## Steps to Reproduce

An infinite minting attack is not performed in a standard reproducible way as it exploits a weakness in a specific contracts validator. A common way this can be introduced is for validators not to check that a transaction is minting other tokens than the expected token in a transaction. In this case an attacker can validate a transaction that mints the expected token as well as minting many unexpected tokens. 

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

Infinite minting attacks can be mitigated by extensively testing validators to check that they can only mint tokens in the expected way. Ideally validators that mint would have: 

- Unit tests
- Property-based tests
- Many negative tests that try to mint tokens in unexpected ways
- Audit

In general if this attack has already occured it may not be possible to do any remediation. If a DApp with this vulnerability is found it is sometimes possible to update the validators of a DApp to patch the exploit. If there is no mechanism to update the validators it is not possible to fix this issue without deploying a new DApp. 

