# CTI-2023-ADA-51-03: Cheap Spam Action

## Author

Romain Soulat, Technical Lead for Certification, IO Global

## Short Summary

DApp protocol might allow a user to do an action with no to little effect on the contract for a cheap price while still requiring the protocol to perform an action that requires either a lot of computation, a lot of storage, or locks the on-chain components of the contract. This can be exploited by a malicious actor that can then spam the contract with such actions, potentially causing a denial of service or causing costs to the contract owner.

## Description

DApp protocol might allow a user to do an action with no to little effect on the contract for a cheap price while still requiring the protocol to perform an action that requires either a lot of computation, a lot of storage, or locks the on-chain components of the contract. This can be exploited by a malicious actor that can then spam the contract with such actions, potentially causing a denial of service or causing costs to the contract owner.

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:**
  - **High:** If the attack is present, it is easy to spot as it is one of the actions a regular user can perform

- **Difficulty:**
  - **Low:** The difficulty is low, as it would be enough to automate performing the action as a regular user would do.

- **Impact:**
  - **Medium:** The impact could be a slow down of the protocol for legitimate users, or a cost to the contract owner.


- **Severity:**
  - **Medium:**

## Steps to Reproduce

If the vulnerability is present, it is enough to simply spam the protocol with the vulnerable action.
As this is a general weakness and not a particular vulnerability, it is not possible to provide a specific example.

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

DApp developer should always consider the impact of an action performed by a user on their protocol. If a user is able to send repeated actions that have a high cost for the protocol or locks other users out of the protocol, the action should be either restricted or be associated to a significant cost.


## Tags

spam, denial-of-service, dos, 