# CTI-2023-ADA-61-01: Oracle Price Manipulation

This section provides descriptive information about each component of the CTI template format used for documenting vulnerabilities and weaknesses within the Cardano Threat Intelligence (CTI) repository. It outlines the key sections included in the template and their respective purposes.

## Author

Simon Thompson, Technical Advisor, IO Global

## Short Summary

This is an exploit that leverages the tokenomics of a DApp, together incorrect oracle values provided by a compromised oracle, to attack the correct operation of the DApp.  

## Description

Many DeFi systems implemented as DApps on Cardano and other blockchains rely on data external to the application to function correctly. This might include "real world" data such as energy prices or weather information, or financial information, such as the exchange rate between two (crypto)currencies, or the capitalisation of a particular asset. Data of this form will be supplied by an oracle, and the integrity of such a service is key to the integrity of the DApp itself.
This attack is independent of the particular blockchain technology.

A [well-documented example on another blockchain](https://decrypt.co/49657/oracle-exploit-sees-100-million-liquidated-on-compound) used compromised oracle values to make it appear that a large number of loans had become undercollateralised, thus triggering the liquidation of those apparently non-viable loans.

## Risk Assessment

- **Likelihood:** medium

- **Difficulty:** high

- **Impact:** high

- **Severity:** medium

## Steps to Reproduce

Reproducing this can be done in a range of different ways, depending on the type of oracle used in the particular DApp, and the tokenomics of the DApp itself. 

## Mitigation & Remediation Steps

Attack on oracle data can be mitigated by changing the way in which the data is generated and incorporated into the DApp, including use of:

- Decentralised oracles
- Time weighted averages
- Consuming price information from many oracle sources - Coinbase, Binance, Coingecko, DEXes, etc.
- Chainlink or similar (Compound now uses chainlink since the oracle attack)

The impact can also be mitigated by examining the tokenomics of the DApp itself. In some situations it may be sufficient to cap the max/min reportable change in value (e.g. for stablecoins), or to consider data over a longer period (e.g. for lending platforms).

